---
title: 'Exercise 07: Invoke AI Builder prompts'
layout: default
nav_order: 8
has_children: true
---


# Exercise 07: Invoke AI Builder prompts


##Goals for this lab

After this lab you will be able to:  
- Understand the basics of AI Builder prompts
- Invoke a custom prompt that leverages Copilot Studio variables


##AI Builder prompts

Think of a prompt as a task or a goal you give to the large language model (LLM). With prompt builder, you can build, test, and save your custom prompts. You can also use input variables to provide dynamic context data at runtime. You can share these prompts with others and use them in Power Automate, Power Apps, or Copilot Studio. For instance, you could make a prompt to pick out action items from your company emails and use it in a Power Automate flow to build an email processing automation.

Prompt builder enables makers to devise custom prompts that cater to their specific business needs using natural language. These prompts can be employed for many tasks or business scenarios, such as summarizing content, categorizing data, extracting entities, translating languages, assessing sentiment, or formulating a response to a complaint.

Prompts can be integrated into flows to build intelligent hands-off automation. Makers can also build advanced generative AI capabilities for their applications by describing them as natural language prompts. These prompts can be used to extend a custom copilot, thereby streamlining your daily business operations and boosting efficiency."

Custom prompts give makers the freedom to instruct the GPT model to behave in a certain way or to perform a specific task. By carefully crafting a prompt, you can generate responses that suit your specific business needs. This transforms the GPT model into a flexible tool to accomplish various tasks.

